are you saying to me that I should as a
32y old man that's cancer-free um God
willing I think got touch would um I
should calorie restrict myself to keep
my mitochondria healthy and my
metabolism healthy now I should be in a
in a sort of I say it's good to visit
the state our Paleolithic ancestors had
no choice there wasn't a doughnut shop
on every corner there wasn't pizzas
there were there weren't the kinds of
Highly processed carbohydrate Foods
available to them so should I be fasting
should I be doing keto I you know I
don't want to tell you what you should
or should not do I'm not a physician
here I'm a scientist I study what causes
these things and I study how to manage
them you have to read what I'm saying
and you have to come to your own
decisions about how you want to conduct
your life I've given you information
what's your view on fasting fasting is a
powerful uh way to get your body into
nutritional ketosis but it ain't easy
try doing it try you try doing it to see
how how easy it is It Ain't Easy right
uh but that's why we developed this
procedure where if you go um rather than
going cold turkey uh say well today I'm
GNA have a big I'm G eat as much as I
can and then tomorrow okay you can go
the I can it's the second third days
when you start to really know what the
hell is going on believe me I've tried
it it's It Ain't Easy that's why we
developed uh a zero carb diet for 14
days 10 to 14 days just zero eat meat
fish chicken whatever you want but just
don't eat any bread pasta this kind of
thing on keto um how do we get into that
sort of ketosis state that people often
talk about measure your glucose Ketone
index how do I do that with the the the
keto Mojo meter you can buy it from
Amazon okay okay you can buy now don't
forget they get a free Libra meter now
for the blood they're working on Ketone
blood meters but it's not there yet
right now the keto Mojo or some other
keto meters where you could take a pick
your finger like a diabetic you take a
glucose strip and you put it on the
blood and you put it into the machine it
tells you what your glucose is squeeze
your finger a little bit more take the
Ketone strip touch it to the blood put
it in the meter it gives you the Ketone
value push the button gki comes right up
okay okay very simple everybody can buy
it from from Amazon get the meter buy
the
consumables uh and then they can test it
this is what Pablo this with all the the
cancer patients the ones who really want
to get into metabolic ketosis I think
I've tried keto before and I say think
because I didn't measure my my keto
levels I was assuming I did yeah no it's
really people say well I haven't eaten
you know I'm in how do you know well I
blew into this thing and the bulb came
on I peed on a strip it looked like it
was ketosis they are indirect measures
the most accurate is the blood measure
so um it's hard to stay in that state
for most people right this is one of the
things because the Temptations in our
society are so strong yeah I mean
Paleolithic man had no choice do you
think he that was his State that's all
he knew for thousands and thousands tens
of thousands hundreds of thousands of
years that's all he knew he didn't say
let me go down to get a big Shelly Phil
donut down at the at the end of the the
river there no there's none of that he
had to live in that state now we have so
many Temptations all the things that we
are biologically clear for when you see
obesity that's Evolution and action they
are the descendants of our long
ancestors that could hold on to energy
so efficiently we were an energy starved
species for the majority of our
existence on the planet so anything we
ate would be very little waste we never
pee out glucose glucose is convert it to
fat and we store energy as fat so those
guys are energy efficient human beings
now all of a sudden we find ourselves
with everything and that's evolution in
action man that we're just we're just
you're allowing to see the how we can
store energy so efficiently because our
ancestors lived through such um
environmental
forcing we had famines we had long TRS
we our body could store energy so
efficiently because it wasn't we had to
store what little we could get from the
environment now you've got you know 300
million Americans in this food
environment where when when they walk
out their front door they see the Dunkin
Donut they can lie in bed and order a
Dunkin Donut to during 10 minutes you
don't even have to unass the car they
hand it through the window yeah no
energy no energy expenditure energy in
so so you know giving them this
information might be fairly futile
because the yeah well that's I'm not
here to tell people again I'm not here
to tell people what they should or
should not do I'm just here to explain
like why do we have all this not mystery
it's all biological evolution you
understand biological evolution almost
everything that I'm talking about makes
perfect sense um and unfortunately
that's not part of our scientific
literacy anymore so we need what
discipline discipline is important um
discipline is important um you know
every major religion had had a point of
fasting um to be whether you're Islamic
Judaism or whatever
Catholicism Hinduism whatever I don't
whatever they always had some sort of
fasting why why you do fasting because
you want to purify your body you want to
become closer to God you want to you
want to you want to feel in control uh
and that's always part and if you do it
with prayer it's even better so uh there
was a reason for doing all that and uh
people realized the Ancients uh knew
this kind of thing but uh we don't do
that anymore uh we don't go 40 days
without food like Jesus did in the
deserts um but a human being you could
absolutely do that I I know because I
can look at your weight I can look at
your size and I can pretty much tell you
how long you can go with before you died
and how do I know that because George
Cahill a good friend late George K ran
the D jlin diabetes center and he he he
evaluated people that would just good
water only
fasting until until death and um and
some of those conin you maze prison
camps and things so he was able to know
how much you could how long you could go
now what about um Angus barbar went 377
days uh without food George Cahill would
fast some of these obese people for for
250 300 days what happens inside their
body with with they're burning fat so
what happens is you burn fat okay liver
stores a lot of of um bone store the
minerals that you can get minerals from
your bones you can get a lot of fat
storage um vitamins are stored in fat a
lot of
outside of the weight loss what's going
on in you know we said religious people
used to fast to get closer to God which
seems to me to point to some sort of
cognitive yes and that's from burning
ketones yeah burn when you burn I said
in the brain when your brain starts
shifting to ketones your energy uh the
bang for the buck for each calorie that
comes in from a ketone body increases
the efficiency of oxidative
phosphorilation so you more focused
massively and you know this is why our
ancestors with the way if you're if you
are dependent on killing some animal uh
for your survival and you are out on the
hunt you are focused uh because if
you're not focused you're going to
starve to death so every organ sense
organ in our body is super is super
jacked when you're in these ketotic
states so and these guys walking around
with headphones listening you know all
this I mean this is like depriving
ourselves of the natural ways uh of our
ancestry don't forget we're not just you
and I are not just here over the last
you know 100 300 400 years we are the
descendants of members that are same as
us you know hundreds of thousands of
years ago they were they just didn't
have the technology that we have today
but if you could put a Paleolithic man
from say 500,000 years ago and you gave
him a bunch of donuts and told a he
would thought he went to heaven you mean
to tell me I don't have to go out and
kill the elk anymore they're going to
hand me the food right through the
window of course he's going to do
that you go the cave and you throw a
bunch of jelly fil Donuts into a bunch
of Caven who have been chewing on the
half eaten rat or something you think
they're not going to eat those jelly
donuts they have a some chimpanzees live
with a family down in Florida there I
know there some YouTube thing The Chimps
they're eating the food with the family
and then they give jelly sandwiches to
The Chimps banging on the table you
think they were going to go crazy
chimpanzees loving the jelly sandwiches
do you have kids
yes what advice would you give to your
children if they're listening to this
now about um how to prevent their chance
of getting sick from cancer or these
other well they'd probably say well Dad
how come you don't do a lot of the
things first well I'm not telling I told
you I don't tell anybody what to do or
or how they do it I'm just telling you
the science behind why why things work
um yeah my my my my my children my two
sons and my um they're all very very
successful and uh they they said if we
ever got cancer we would be doing your
we would be doing the metabolic therapy
if we were to ever get cancer answer and
I said just keep you know exercise and
and do what you can do the best you can
in our environment I mean don't get me
wrong I'm eat I'm eating a jelly donut
I'm drinking beer I'm drinking whiskey
why because I like it but I'm not going
to be doing it all the time you know
it's just it's just I'm not going to be
saying oh I'm going to eat pizza sure
but I'm not going to be uh uh not doing
it I do water I do intermittent fasting
I don't eat for 18 20 hours at a time I
do a lot of exercise over at the
university the gym and the facilities
that we have um but I but I understand
and then if I were to get cancer I would
have to U bite the bullet and do what
I'm do what I know works as much as it
wouldn't be pleasurable but it would be
certainly a better alternative than
being radiated and poisoned I'm telling
you that if that has built your
conviction to the point that you're so
convinced that the real issue is this
sort of metabolic dysfunction
um why aren't you optimizing your life
to be sort of metabolically perfect well
because I live in the same Society do
you do yeah okay and and fortunately yes
our technology has improved uh
significantly um you know I'm not a monk
I'm not going to be in some Monastery
you know chanting something um I I I am
a member of the society just as you are
and I enjoy the things that we have to
offer us to make our lives a little bit
more pleasurable there's nothing like
sitting down over a nice meal and having
a discussion with some wine and enjoying
it enjoy the moment but don't but not to
be locked into that kind of uh diet and
lifestyle all the time uh puts you at
risk if you love the dver COO brand and
you watch this Channel please do me a
huge favor become part of the 15% of the
viewers on this channel that have hit
the Subscribe button it helps us
tremendously and the bigger the channel
gets the bigger the guests